OpenIoT & ELC 2016, San Diego, CA, Mon 4 Apr 2016

Keynote

Linus Torvalds in Conversation with Dirk Hohndel

Linus Torvalds - Creator of Linux Kernel and git
Dirk Hohndel - Chief Linux and Open Source Technologist at Intel

Linux 4.6 RC2 just out with tons of changes.
Past the stage of rewriting whole subsystems.
Stable model of development for five years.
Happy how alive all subsystems are.
Still things to improve after 25 years.
Started as a workstation.
Fifteen years ago, started seeing odd embedded uses.
Using Linux to show commercials on gas pumps.
Happy with Linux desktop.
This is first time Linus on stage at Embedded Linux Conference.
How important is Linux for IoT?
If really tiny, don't need Linux.
Need a lot of smart devices to unify everything.
Never interested in a really small RTOS.
It needs an MMU (memory management unit) to be interesting.
Linus is a software person interested in hardware.
"IoT is unpatchable" quote from someone in industry.
That is just a fact of life.
Primary is to get the job done, security is secondary.
Of course new industries will get things wrong at first.
Now finally looking at security.
Ever be perfectly secure?  No.
Will fix as tools/platforms become more mainstream.
Ability to upgrade, apply new patches.
Old apps and devices do not get attention, not shiny anymore.
Is the vendor still around?  Do they care?
One-off hardware, turn around in weeks.
Six months later, sell the next version.
Developers did not push improvements back to Linus.
People churning out new devices don't have time.
Now cheaper to buy chip that is more than you really need.
Millions of units.
Converging on a few popular chips.
So now kernel developers can keep up with devices.
How open can create interop quality like Apple.
Will never have single IoT protocol to rule them all.
But may have three or four, with smart devices to tie them together.
For example, token ring is gone, TCP/IP won, pervasive.
Won't see something as fundamental as TCP/IP unity.
Linus, what would you do in this IoT space?
Love to make things, but I am not that hardware guy, soldering.
If not doing kernel, would do something with Raspberry Pi, Beaglebone.
I don't do code anymore, just manage pull requests.
Linus, will you do a second career outside Linux?
No, still like it, would be bored without a project like Linux or git.
Daughter in college now, says people know her dad as the git guy.
More well known for three month git project than 25 year Linux project.
Loved doing user space programming, user space is so easy.
Like a vacation, sitting on the beach.
Fun, but you can't spend your life doing that.
Prefer technology at the lowest level.
Will there be another big project?
Maybe, if something annoys me.
Where will Linux be in X years?
Don't know, just do the best thing you can each day.
Linux happened naturally, without five year plans.
Made Linux well-balanced, responsive.
Have some future plans based on coming hardware.

