OpenIoT & ELC 2016, San Diego, CA, Tue 5 Apr 2016

Mist Computing - Going Beyond the Fog

Jurgo Preden PhD., CEO at Thinnect, Estonia

Why mist computing?
How can we scale IoT to 75B devices?
Utilize compute power at edge of network.
Create self-configuring and self-managing solutions.
Mist computing offers these features.
Edge of network, limited power, bandwidth, memory.
Connectivity, 6LoWPAN IP (IPv6 over radio).
Now have 32-bit ARM cores running at 30+ MHz.
Communication is much more expensive than compute.
Edge IoT, 256 KB memory, 250 KB/sec bandwidth.
The IoT edge is not a scaled down Internet.
Do we have the right design? (Bill Buxton)
Never time to get design right, but have years to fix it.
Age of IoT.
Dumb nodes send repetitive raw data to cloud intelligence.
Mist sends actionable intelligent information to fog / cloud intelligence.
Cisco fog computing is gateway centric (but Cisco sells gateways).
We need nformation, not data, from the network.
Network should deliver only the information that has been requested, when it has been requested.
Subscriber-provider model.
Devices must be situation aware and adapt to information needs and changing network configuration.
Cloud and fog have awareness of user needs, and global situation.
Mist has an awareness of physical environment and local situation.
Edge versus Mist.
Edge: fixed function, fixed config, data processing.
Mist: high level rules, dynamic function, new app assembled at runtime from existing devices.
Device level rules, binary RDF.
Rules, data relations.
Mist in action.
Information fusion.
802.15.4 radio for low-rate wireless personal area networks.
Have deployed working systems.
Acoustic arrays to detect military border crossings.
Smart streetlight control with 600 nodes.
With energy savings, ROI in 2 years instead of 7 years.
No network to install or configure.
Value proposition is to dim the lights when no traffic.
Detect human movement, traffic sensor.
Share sensor network with air quality sensors.
Self-configuring.
Building blocks.
Mist computing.
Self-diagnostics of networks.
RF is very unpredictable.
Using mesh networking.
Fog computing has scalability problems.
How can owner of sensor control access to data?

